# Section 3: Week 7: Challenges in Data Mining Theories and Practice

In recent years, data mining has achieved great success at the organizational level. Researchers have taken an active approach in researching data mining techniques and practices. Additional research in security, privacy, and data integrity are key issues that will need to be addressed in future research with the threats surrounding data security.

Radio frequency identification (RFID) is a method of using electromagnetic fields to track and identify tags to objects. For example, the military uses this for containers; large shipping companies use it to track cargo; even retailers are jumping on the bandwagon to determine which goods are substitute goods. As a result of this and other efforts, very large stores of data are being collected; and through analysis, meaningful and relevant knowledge is being extracted. This information may or may not make its way into the hands of management that can do something with the information to make relevant decisions. Companies with very specific data mining organizations tend to offer the best opportunity to act on data that are derived from warehouses.

Data mining breaks down to the process of knowledge discovery and is one of the best tools used in machine learning, advanced statistics, artificial intelligence, pattern recognition, and computation capabilities used in the field of business. The future of data mining most likely becomes predictive analysis. The data-mining applications will be used to enrich human life in many ways, including areas such as education, business, medicine, science, and politics.

Recently, the amount of data being collected has increased greatly due to the ability to collect it. There are various sensors and devices in all kinds of locations and areas that are collecting data. The flood of data has dwarfed our ability to process, analyze, store, or understand its implications. The acceleration of data collected is brought on by the acceptance of social networking, such as Facebook and Twitter. These platforms allow users to create custom content freely and with little restriction. In fact, most platforms encourage the development of new material. Further increasing the data onslaught is the advent of the smartphone. It has become a sensory gateway from which real-time data can be collected about individuals. The amount of data mobile providers could possibly process to improve daily lives has far exceeded the processing capabilities of the system they had in place.

The resources for this week focus on the challenges of data mining. With new data options and big data, organizations are faced with new challenges of how to collect, analyze, and store the data. These articles this week provide additional information on these topics.

Be sure to review this week's resources carefully. You are expected to apply the information from these resources when you prepare your assignments.
